=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

UV::Loop - Looping with libuv

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  #!/usr/bin/env perl
  use strict;
  use warnings;

  use UV;

  # A new loop
  my $loop = UV::Loop->new();

  # default loop
  my $loop = UV::Loop->default_loop(); # convenience constructor
  my $loop = UV::Loop->new(1); # Tell the constructor you want the default loop

  # run a loop with one of three options:
  # UV_RUN_DEFAULT, UV_RUN_ONCE, UV_RUN_NOWAIT
  $loop->run(); # runs with UV_RUN_DEFAULT
  $loop->run(UV::Loop::UV_RUN_DEFAULT); # explicitly state UV_RUN_DEFAULT
  $loop->run(UV::Loop::UV_RUN_ONCE);
  $loop->run(UV::Loop::UV_RUN_NOWAIT);


=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides an interface to
L<libuv's loop|http://docs.libuv.org/en/v1.x/loop.html>. We will try to
document things here as best as we can, but we also suggest you look at the
L<libuv docs|http://docs.libuv.org> directly for more details on how things
work.

Event loops that work properly on all platforms. YAY!

=head1 CONSTANTS

=head2 RUN MODE CONSTANTS

=head3 UV_RUN_DEFAULT

=head3 UV_RUN_NOWAIT

=head3 UV_RUN_ONCE


=head1 METHODS

L<UV::Loop> makes the following methods available.

=head2 new

    my $loop = UV::Loop->new();
    my $default_loop = UV::Loop->new(1);
    my $default_loop = UV::Loop->default_loop();
    my $default_loop = UV::Loop->default();

Either return the default loop (singleton object), or create a new event loop.
Please look at the L<documentation|http://docs.libuv.org/en/v1.x/loop.html>
from libuv.

=head2 alive

    my $int = $loop->alive();

L<alive|http://docs.libuv.org/en/v1.x/loop.html#c.uv_loop_alive> returns a
non-zero value if there are active handles or requests in the loop.

=head2 backend_fd

    my $int = $loop->backend_fd();

L<backend_fd|http://docs.libuv.org/en/v1.x/loop.html#c.uv_backend_fd> returns
the backend file descriptor. Only C<kqueue>, C<epoll> and C<event ports> are
supported.

This can be used in conjunction with L<UV::Loop/"run"> and C<UV_RUN_NOWAIT> to
poll in one thread and run the event loop's callbacks in another.

B<* Note:> Embedding a C<kqueue fd> in another C<kqueue pollset> doesn't work
on all platforms. It's not an error to add the C<fd> but it never generates
events.

=head2 backend_timeout

    my $int = $loop->backend_timeout();

L<backend_timeout|http://docs.libuv.org/en/v1.x/loop.html#c.uv_backend_timeout>
returns the poll timeout. The return value is in milliseconds, or C<-1> for no
timeout.

=head2 loop_alive

    my $int = $loop->loop_alive();

This is just a synonym for L<UV::Loop/"alive">.

=head2 now

    my $uint64_t = $loop->now();

L<now|http://docs.libuv.org/en/v1.x/loop.html#c.uv_now> returns the current
timestamp in milliseconds. The timestamp is cached at the start of the event
loop tick, see L<UV::Loop/"update_loop"> for details and rationale.

The timestamp increases monotonically from some arbitrary point in time. Don't
make assumptions about the starting point, you will only get disappointed.

B<* Note:> Use L<UV/"uv_hrtime"> if you need sub-millisecond granularity.

=head2 run

    # use UV_RUN_DEFAULT by default
    my $int = $loop->run();
    # or, explicitly use it:
    my $int = $loop->run(UV::Loop::UV_RUN_DEFAULT);
    # run in UV_RUN_NOWAIT mode
    my $int = $loop->run(UV::Loop::UV_RUN_NOWAIT);
    # run in UV_RUN_ONCE mode
    my $int = $loop->run(UV::Loop::UV_RUN_ONCE);

L<run|http://docs.libuv.org/en/v1.x/loop.html#c.uv_run> runs the event loop. It
will act differently depending on the specified mode:

=over 4

=item

C<UV_RUN_DEFAULT> Runs the event loop until there are no more active and
referenced handles or requests. Returns non-zero if L<UV::Loop/"stop"> was
called and there are still active handles or requests. Returns zero in all other
cases.

=item

C<UV_RUN_NOWAIT> Poll for i/o once but don't block if there are no pending
callbacks. Returns zero if done (no active handles or requests left), or
non-zero if more callbacks are expected (meaning you should run the event loop
again sometime in the future).

=item

C<UV_RUN_ONCE> Poll for i/o once. Note that this function blocks if there are
no pending callbacks. Returns zero when done (no active handles or requests
left), or non-zero if more callbacks are expected (meaning you should run the
event loop again sometime in the future).

=back

=head2 stop

    $loop->stop();

L<stop|http://docs.libuv.org/en/v1.x/loop.html#c.uv_stop> stops the event loop,
causing L<UV::Loop/"run"> to end as soon as possible. This will happen not
sooner than the next loop iteration. If this function was called before
blocking for i/o, the loop won't block for i/o on this iteration.

=head2 update_time

    $loop->update_time();

L<update_time|http://docs.libuv.org/en/v1.x/loop.html#c.uv_update_time> updates
the event loop's concept of L<UV::Loop/"now">. Libuv caches the current time
at the start of the event loop tick in order to reduce the number of
time-related system calls.

You won't normally need to call this function unless you have callbacks that
block the event loop for longer periods of time, where "longer" is somewhat
subjective but probably on the order of a millisecond or more.


=head1 AUTHOR

Daisuke Murase <F<typester@cpan.org>>

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

Chase Whitener <F<capoeirab@cpan.org>>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2012, Daisuke Murase.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
